Update the dependencies page in the docs (#3772)
kedro-org/kedro: docs/source/kedro_project_setup/dependencies.md

When you create a project, you then introduce additional dependencies for the tasks it performs.

## Declare project-specific dependencies

> You can specify a project's exact dependencies in the `requirements.txt` file to make it easier for you and others to run your project in the future, and to avoid version conflicts downstream. When you create a new Kedro project, a `requirements.txt` file is generated in the root directory of the project. This file contains the core dependencies and dependecies related to the tools chosen during the project creation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a new Kedro project, Kedro generates a `requirements.txt` file in the root directory of the project. The file contains the core dependencies and those related to the tools you choose to include in the project. Specifying the project's exact dependencies in a `requirements.txt` file makes it easier to run the project in the future, and avoids version conflicts downstream. 
```

Reviewer: Bit of a switch about -- see what you think.

> You can specify a project's exact dependencies in the `requirements.txt` file to make it easier for you and others to run your project in the future, and to avoid version conflicts downstream. When you create a new Kedro project, a `requirements.txt` file is generated in the root directory of the project. This file contains the core dependencies and dependecies related to the tools chosen during the project creation process.

Author: ```suggestion
You can specify a project's exact dependencies in the `requirements.txt` file to make it easier for you and others to run your project in the future, and to avoid version conflicts downstream. When you create a new Kedro project, a `requirements.txt` file is generated in the root directory of the project. This file contains the core dependencies and dependencies related to the tools chosen during the project creation process.
```

## Install project-specific dependencies

When someone clones your project, they can install the project-specific dependencies by navigating to the root directory of the project and running the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Install dependencies related to the Data Catalog

The [Data Catalog](../data/data_catalog.md) is your way of interacting with different data types in Kedro. You can use [`kedro-datasets`](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-plugins/tree/main/kedro-datasets) to interact with the data used in your projects. Depending on the datasets that you use in your Data Catalog, you might need to include additional dependencies in your `requirements.txt`. The modular dependencies in this category include `pandas`, `numpy`, `pyspark`, `matplotlib`, `pillow`, `dask`, and more.

#### Install dependencies at a group-level

> Data types are broken into groups e.g. `pandas`, `spark` and `pickle`. Each group has a collection of data types e.g.`pandas-csvdataset`, `pandas-parquetdataset` and more. You can install dependencies for an entire group of dependencies as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
Data types are broken into groups e.g. `pandas`, `spark` and `pickle`. Each group has a collection of data types e.g.`pandas.CSVDataset`, `pandas.ParquetDataset` and more. You can install dependencies for an entire group of dependencies as follows:
```

To limit installation to dependencies specific to a data type:

```bash

> pip install "kedro-datasets[<group>-<dataset>]"

Reviewer 2: I wonder is it worth to have annotation like "Changed in kedro-datasets 3.0", similar to this in the Python docs.
https://docs.python.org/3/library/multiprocessing.html#contexts-and-start-methods

Author: I haven't changed it everywhere the dataset dependencies have been mentioned, just updated this page, but something we could do in https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/pull/3664? (cc @lrcouto )

```

> For example, your workflow might require use of the `pandas.ExcelDataset`, so to install its dependencies, run `pip install "kedro-datasets[pandas-exceldataset]"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, your workflow might require the `pandas.ExcelDataset`, so to install its dependencies, run `pip install "kedro-datasets[pandas-exceldataset]"`.
```

```{note}
From `kedro-datasets` version 3.0.0 onwards, the names of the optional dataset-level dependencies have been normalised to follow [PEP 685](https://peps.python.org/pep-0685/). The '.' character has been replaced with a '-' character and the names are in lowercase. For example, if you had `kedro-datasets[pandas.ExcelDataset]` in your requirements file, it would have to be changed to `kedro-datasets[pandas-exceldataset]`.

> ```

Reviewer 3: 💯

Reviewer 2: Checking with my understanding, the normalisation is happened automatically, so even if I do `pip install kedro-datasets[pandas-excelDATASETs]` it should still work?

## Reproducible environments

> In order to make sure that the project dependencies and the transitive dependencies are pinned to specific versions, you can use [`pip-tools`](https://pypi.org/project/pip-tools/) to compile the `requirements.txt` file into a `requirements.lock` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that the project dependencies and the transitive dependencies are pinned to specific versions, use [`pip-tools`](https://pypi.org/project/pip-tools/) to compile `requirements.txt` file into a `requirements.lock` file.
```

> To install `pip-tools` in your virtual environment, run the following command:

Reviewer 4: I wonder if we should mention that `uv pip compile` will replace this workflow and become the dominant way to do this...

https://github.com/astral-sh/uv

Reviewer 3: As much as I love `uv`, it's a bit of a moving target ATM and it's not clear if they're even retaining the `uv pip` namespace https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/issues/1657

To give an idea of how young it is, nobody has yet asked for a 1.0 version yet 😂 (classic open source behavior)

I'd wait a bit to see where the project goes.

Reviewer 3: Also there are efforts to standardize lock files, but the person writing the PEP became a dad :) https://fosstodon.org/@brettcannon/112203862546870204

```bash
pip install pip-tools
```

To add or remove dependencies to a project, edit the `requirements.txt` file, then run the following:

```bash
pip-compile <project_root>/requirements.txt --output-file <project_root>/requirements.lock
```

This will [pip compile](https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools#example-usage-for-pip-compile) the requirements listed in the `requirements.txt` file into a `requirements.lock` that specifies a list of pinned project dependencies(those with a strict version). You can also use this command with additional CLI arguments such as `--generate-hashes`
to use `pip`'s Hash Checking Mode or `--upgrade-package` to update specific packages to the latest or specific versions.
[Check out the `pip-tools` documentation](https://pypi.org/project/pip-tools/) for more information.

```{note}
The `requirements.txt` file contains "source" requirements, while `requirements.lock` contains the compiled version of those and requires no manual updates.
```

> To further update the project requirements, modify the `requirements.txt` file (not `requirements.lock`) and re-run the `pip-compile` command above.

Reviewer: I'd put this sentence in the note as well to clarify what you mean by "no manual update" - that is, you need to update the .txt file not the .lock file.
